[Music]
have you ever thought it's a good idea
to take a nap in the middle of the
street or maybe you cleaned your entire
school when you were a teenager if not
then you're probably not Japanese here's
a little something for you from the Land
of the Rising Sun I think we could all
learn a thing or two from them on
average the Japanese live four years
longer than Americans their life
expectancy is the second longest in the
world at 85 years beat only by Monaco
with 89 years but they have more yachts
per capita by other accounts though
San Marino also has a higher life
expectancy on the topic of age by the
way Japan has many more elderly people
than children in fact 21% of Japanese
people are over the age of 65 this is
the largest proportion in the world
this might be since the quality of life
especially when it concerns the crime
rate is way better in Japan than in most
countries for example as per 2018
statistics there are just 3 robberies
per 100,000 people in Tokyo a paradise
for law-abiding citizens the situation
with work especially office jobs is a
whole nother issue Japan has a 40-hour
work week but most employees voluntarily
work overtime generally extending it to
60 hours this is a habit taken from the
mid 20th century when the government
encouraged people to work long hours to
restore the country's economy after the
war that's why it's become normal to
take naps right in the workplace or even
in the streets strolling around Tokyo in
the evening you'll notice people dressed
in neat suits just sleeping on the
ground like it's their own cozy bed
there's even a word for it in Japanese
in amory falling asleep on the job shows
that you're working hard so some people
even fake it to get appreciation Wow
getting a pay raise for napping in your
office chair sounds like fun to me
still companies and the government alike
are doing their best to make people go
home earlier one IT company for example
makes its employees wear purple capes of
shame on the last Wednesday of a month
if they work too many hours
I wonder how hard-working these people
are that well they're like that for a
reason after all all students are
required to tidy up in their school
during the day the tradition is called
sog and it includes mopping floors and
cleaning bathrooms it teaches the
students to help and respect other
people and they sure take it seriously
high social standards have a downside
though there are currently over a half
million people in Japan called
hikikomori these are young adults who
seclude themselves at home and won't go
out no matter what the government links
this phenomenon to the psychological and
social pressure and frankly I couldn't
agree more
anyway rigorous practice and education
makes the Japanese successful in life
most of the time the literacy is close
to 100% which is the highest in the
world and the unemployment rate is only
about 4 percent which is as you may
guess pretty low compared to most
countries but don't think the Japanese
don't know how to have fun
there are numerous festivals taking
place all over Japan and oh how strange
they are to us Westerners for example a
Dhaka Matsui or naked festival is where
thousands of men and boys take off their
clothes and fight for a sacred object to
gain luck for the year well okay
whatever makes you happy guys Hakuna
Matata
oops sorry that's not Japanese that's
Disney about happiness
there are cuddle cafes in the Land of
the Rising Sun which are made
specifically for lonely and miserable
people there you can pay to lay next to
a person and share a moment of peace and
understanding for an additional fee you
can also stare at each other for a
minute or stroke their hair
I don't know if that's sweet or creepy
one of the reasons for the loneliness
might be that the Japanese are socially
required to hang out with their
colleagues after work so you don't just
meet up with friends and forget about
work after leaving the office you go to
a bar and drink with your co-workers and
sometimes even your boss now that's a
frightening perspective for some Japan
is a traditionalist Society so men are
commonly breadwinners and seen as heirs
to their families that's why an unusual
thing has happened there are more adults
adopted there than children most often
the adopted are men aged 20 to 30 years
this is done to have an heir or for
instance to pass down a business
remember I told you about their
diligence well it concerns every sphere
of life including public transport
Japanese trains are almost never late
and if they are they must issue official
delay certificates for passengers this
way they have proof they weren't late
because of their own tardiness
politeness is one of Japan's trademarks
known all over the world there are
numerous formalities to be observed in
communication with different people and
they're all rather strict they also have
about 20 ways to say sorry now let that
sink in what is considered polite in
Japan may sometimes surprise foreigners
though for example slurping your noodles
with gusto is a way to show your
appreciation to the cook so don't
restrain yourself avoid walking down the
street with your food however it's not
exactly rude today but it's still not
very classy
don't be surprised when you see the
Japanese standing right at the spot
where they bought some treat and eating
it they just don't want to walk with it
it's also considered impolite to talk on
your phone and a confined public space
such as public transport great idea
shall I repeat that one there you're
expected to put your phone in your bag
or pocket turn off the sound and only
answer it if it's urgent
and even then you should keep your voice
down you don't want dirty looks from the
locals do you well you'll probably find
it next to impossible to talk on the
phone
on a subway train in Japan anyways this
is especially true for Tokyo where there
are special people called pushers on
many stations they do exactly what their
name implies pushing people into the
train cars try pulling out your phone
when you're pinned to the wall back to
work issues if you ever find yourself in
a Japanese restaurant don't even think
about tipping your waiter it's
considered rude and the reason is simple
they do their job and they do it well
because it's an honor if you give them a
tip you will send them by assuming they
do it for extra cash use sporting
tattoos then Japanese public baths are
off-limits for you
sorry tattoos are considered ugly and
associated with Yakuza or organized
Japanese criminal gangs so no one will
allow you entry to a public bath without
them at least covered recently though
this has changed in many baths
because Japan is trying to be more open
to tourists slippers are a real thing in
all Japanese homes and in many
establishments when entering someone's
home you'll be offered a pair so make
sure you always take your shoes off if
no slippers are offered you should still
leave your shoes outside cleanliness is
a virtue you know make sure you wear
socks without any halls
so what other curious things do you know
about Japan sound off in the comments
below if you learned something new today
then give this video a like share it
with a friend and here are some more
cool videos to check out from the bright
side of life